
Bias
It refers to model fitting the training data poorly but able to produce similar result in data outside training data. 
It is related to underfitting. In simple/layman's term, we are building simple models that predicts terribly far from 
the reality but they don't change much from dataset to dataset.

Variance

We are building complex models that fits well on training data but they cannot generalise the pattern well which results to overfitting. 
It means they don't fit well on data outside training (i.e. validation / test datasets). 
In simple terms, it means they might predict close to reality on average, but they tend to change much more with small changes in the input.

An algorithm like Decision Tree has low bias but high variance, 
because it can easily change as small change in input variable. 
In general, it does not generalize the pattern well. It leads to overfitting.

Bias-variance trade-off
It means there is a trade-off between predictive accuracy and generalization of pattern outside training data. 
Increasing the accuracy of the model will lead to less generalization of pattern outside training data. 
Increasing the bias will decrease the variance. Increasing the variance will decrease the bias.

How to correct Bias-Variance Error
1. Try smaller number of predictors (only important ones) when you have high variance
2. Try larger number of predictors or transform predictors when you have high bias
3. Get more training data when you have high variance

In decision trees, pruning of tree is a method to reduce variance. 
It reduces the size of decision trees by removing sections of the tree that provide little power to classify instances.

Training and Cross-Validation Error
High Variance - High difference between cross-validation error and the training set error. 
    To overcome it, use more training data. If it is not possible to include more data, include only important predictors or independent variables.
High Bias - Low difference between cross-validation and training error. Try more predictors or transform existing predictors.